<H2>Implementing a database interface layer - overview</H2>
The database interface layer hides the details of the specific database you are benchmarking from the YCSB Client. This allows the client to generate operations like "read record" or "update record" without having to understand the specific API of your database. Thus, it is very easy to benchmark new database systems; once you have created the database interface layer, the rest of the benchmark framework runs without having to change.
<P>
The database interface layer is a simple abstract class that provides read, insert, update, delete and scan operations for your database. Implementing a database interface layer for your database means filling out the body of each of those methods. Once you have compiled your layer, you can specify the name of your implemented class on the command line (or as a property) to the YCSB Client. The YCSB Client will load your implementation dynamically when it starts. Thus, you do not need to recompile the YCSB Client itself to add or change a database interface layer.

<H2>Creating a new layer step-by-step</H2>
<h3>Step 1 - Extend com.yahoo.ycsb.DB</h3>
The base class of all database interface layer implementations is com.yahoo.ycsb.DB. This is an abstract class, so you need to create a new class which extends the DB class. Your class must have a public no-argument constructor, because the instances will be constructed inside a factory which will use the no-argument constructor.
<P>
The YCSB Client framework will create one instance of your DB class per worker thread, but there might be multiple worker threads generating the workload, so there might be multiple instances of your DB class created.

<H3>Step 2 - Implement init() if necessary</h3>
You can perform any initialization of your DB object by implementing the following method

<PRE> 
  public void init() throws DBException
</PRE>

to perform any initialization actions. The init() method will be called once per DB instance; so if there are multiple threads, each DB instance will have init() called separately.
<P>
The init() method should be used to set up the connection to the database and do any other initialization. In particular, you can configure your database layer using properties passed to the YCSB Client at runtime. In fact, the YCSB Client will pass to the DB interface layer 
all of the properties specified in all parameter files specified when the Client starts up. Thus, you can create new properties for configuring your DB interface layer, set them in your parameter files (or on the command line), and then retrieve them inside your implementation of the DB interface layer. 
<P>
These properties will be passed to the DB instance <i>after</i> the constructor, so it is important to retrieve them only in the init() method and not the constructor. You can get the set of properties using the 

<pre>
  public Properties getProperties()
</pre>

method which is already implemented and inherited from the DB base class.

<h3>Step 3 - Implement the database query and update methods</h3>

The methods that you need to implement are:

<pre>
  //Read a single record
  public int read(String table, String key, Set<String> fields, HashMap<String,String> result);

  //Perform a range scan
  public int scan(String table, String startkey, int recordcount, Set<String> fields, Vector<HashMap<String,String>> result);
	
  //Update a single record
  public int update(String table, String key, HashMap<String,String> values);

  //Insert a single record
  public int insert(String table, String key, HashMap<String,String> values);

  //Delete a single record
  public int delete(String table, String key);
</pre>

In each case, the method takes a table name and record key. (In the case of scan, the record key is the first key in the range to scan.) For the read methods (read() and scan()) the methods additionally take a set of fields to be read, and provide a structure (HashMap or Vector of HashMaps) to store the returned data. For the write methods (insert() and update()) the methods take HashMap which maps field names to values.
<P>
The database should have the appropriate tables created before you run the benchmark. So you can assume in your implementation of the above methods that the appropriate tables already exist, and just write code to read or write from the tables named in the "table" parameter.
<h3>Step 4 - Compile your database interface layer</h3>
Your code can be compiled separately from the compilation of the YCSB Client and framework. In particular, you can make changes to your DB class and recompile without having to recompile the YCSB Client.

<h3>Step 5 - Test your database layer</h3>

A simple way to test your layer is to use it with the simple command line client included with YCSB. This client creates a DB instance, and allows you to interact directly with the database without having to start a workload. For example, to use the command line client with the MongoDB binding:

<PRE>
  % java com.yahoo.ycsb.CommandLine -db com.yahoo.ycsb.db.MongoDbClient -p mongodb.url=mongodb://localhost:27017 -p mongodb.database=ycsb 
  YCSB Command Line client
  Type "help" for command line help
  Start with "-help" for usage info
  Connected.
  > insert brianfrankcooper first=brian last=cooper
  Return code: 1
  191 ms
  > read brianfrankcooper
  Return code: 0
  last=cooper
  _id=brianfrankcooper
  first=brian
  2 ms
  > quit
</PRE>

<h3>Step 6 - Use it with the YCSB Client</h3>
Make sure that the classes for your implementation (or a jar containing those classes) are available on your CLASSPATH, as well as any libraries/jar files used by your implementation. Now, when you run the YCSB Client, specify the "-db" argument on the command line and provide the fully qualified classname of your DB class. For example, to run workloada with your DB class:

<pre>
 %  java -cp build/ycsb.jar:yourjarpath com.yahoo.ycsb.Client -t -db com.foo.YourDBClass -P workloads/workloada -P large.dat -s > transactions.dat
</pre>  

You can also specify the DB interface layer using the DB property in your parameter file:

<pre>
 db=com.foo.YourDBClass
</pre>
